Backstory:
My initial thoughts that struck me when contemplating the Halfling format was the challenge it imposed on the trend of having cancellation cards make up half the resource portion of a deck.  Ok, not all decks care; squat decks in particular couldn’t care less.  But, e.g., One Ring Wizard decks were going to have it rough.  I saw this as opening up the viability of many interesting strategies that would otherwise be thwarted by heavy cancel, both of attacks and attack boosters, and One Ring threat.  Fallen could still theoretically bring heavy cancel, and I figured the format only too clearly screamed Fallen to get duplicate card utility, so I figured I would simply fill in the corners with some extra anti-Fallen tricks.  After a few evenings of working through implementation details my initial plans to use Fallen were not feeling solid enough for various reasons, including that those whom I was most concerned about would likely anticipate me being drawn to Fallen and similarly reason through putting more anti-Fallen cards into their main deck!

In the meantime, though, I had gotten really excited about my vs. Wizard hazard portion---emphasizing Agent combat with minor drake and corruption themes---so decided to switch to optimizing my resource strategy entirely around that side.  I was intrigued with the idea of getting some needed experience playing as competitive Minion, combining various tinkerings I’d done with avoidance Minion (none of them in isolation would work with the Halfling restrictions): Mordor leader, Sulfur-deeps squat, switching late game to Under-deeps double drops.  I will point out that none of these are Mordor Shuffle, although maybe my opponents were just as frustrated as if they had been!  What I ended up with suited me well: a quite robust resource portion that wouldn’t distract me from the hazard side.  Other than my first move with hazard limit of 2, it can avoid all symbol keyability other than Dark-hold and Shadow-hold.  I didn’t anticipate more problems than some delayed turns from a single The Way is Shut, or Rivers, or Adunaphel, and I figured delays would simply give my agents more time to do their work.  Things worked essentially as I’d hoped, but I also had more than my fair share of lucky body checks as a buffer against my mistakes.

Game Results (videos at https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PL9HDiqTUeNflT_viPws9hZO-Dqq0iOwm0 )
Round 1 (CDavis7M):
I got a great agent setup right away.  Terribly unlucky corruption for CDavis7M, with flagship character Imrahil with a Horn of Anor running during round 2 untap phase from Lure of the Senses.  In round 3, Beretar ran from Alone and Unadvised, before an Assassin and two agent attacks took three more heads.  Valiant Pippin remaining, he then got wounded by the Gladden Fields automatic-attack, prompting concession.

Round 2 (FUBAR):
My only vs. Minion game.  My hazard portion against Minion replaces agents and corruption with more emphasis on Summons from Long Sleep for persistent threat and Maia for guarding the Free-holds and Border-holds.  Lieutenant of Dol Guldur bounced during the draft.  I revealed first as Hoarmurath, which turned out to also be FUBAR’s preference.  FUBAR went after rings, but many of his minions fell to my 14 body checks from creatures when moving to Grey Mountain Narrows and Buhr Widu.  I got lucky when FUBAR discarded his Ready to His Will just before I attacked with Lord of the Carrock.  Between the two of us, we played Adunaphel 5 or more times I think.  FUBAR conceded in round 8.

Round 3 (sarma72):
This was a slow resource game for both of us.  I think sarma72 didn’t get a resource to line up until round 3.  Returning from The Stones, an offering of New Friendship from Arinmir failed to Flatter a Foe of Earcaraxe Ahunt.  Then Aragorn with Orcrist succumbed to the Lure of Nature, while Radagast and Cirdan felt the claws of an Ice Drake journeying to Old Forest.  With -4 net character MP, the game ended by concession in round 5.

Round 4 (Adamj):
A Chilled Fori the Beardless riding an Ice Drake to Zarak Dum eliminated Tros and Gloin, and wounded Fallen Alatar.  Alatar escaped, and even Hunted down a Cave Drake on the way back to The White Towers!  At Eagles Erie, a Chilled Elwen, twice the Cunning Foe, eliminated Peath and wounded Alatar twice.  But Alatar escaped again!  Unmolested Hoamurath was then getting ready for Sauron's Audience.  On the final turn, Boromir went on vacation with Gwaihir from being Alone and Unadvised so that Elwen could stop Elrohir at Wellinghall.  Even with 7 strikes split between three 10-prowess creatures, Alatar's crew still recruited Bairanax Roused.  Lagduf cut off his own head showing The Black Axe to Odoacer at the Council, and Adamj earned 1 TP to block my perfect tournament run; well done, sir!
