Using a grant from Cornell University’s bird lab, Beorn and Thranduil decided to compete in Middle Earth’s first ever big year. Seeking to set a high standard for species observed, they painstakingly tailor their plans to take advantage of local weather conditions, migratory patterns, and good old fashioned luck. 

Their agreed itinerary is straightforward: hike through the wildernesses of Eriador and document every species they come across. The party will grow as more eager birders join in - remember, they’re birdwatchers so obviously everyone is still single, with plenty of free time on weekends. As the party grows, so does the excitement, for they especially hope to meet the famed Wizard Radagast; according to legend he’s obsessed with the avian world. Once they find another birding Bigwig, the legendary Lindion (scion of the house of Trumpeter Swans), the plan is to board some international flights for more exotic parts of middle earth.

Against Trotter, Thranduil bounced right away and didn’t show up for a few turns. However, the big year was going ok until disaster struck. Radagast - that Courageous counter of Cranes - decided to fail a CC with two Lures and spend the rest of the game getting high on peyote. Trotter’s crew managed to squat some hours of need away and bring in some far off friends, and alas, the big year ended early for lack of funds.

Against Theo’s ladies, the very, very single (and probably virgin) group of birdwatchers immediately crapped their pants. They therefore made up some really lame excuses and asked the Balrog to take care of things. However, he couldn’t descend through fire (apparently maia speak for “fall gloriously on your ass”) enough times to pump up his points early enough. Meanwhile, Theo’s ladies ran into some trouble in the mountains trying to stay alive. But they held on and were able to outlast the Balrog - who just could not fall on his ass enough times or with sufficient aplomb to pull out the victory. 

Against Moriquendi, the big year finally crested itself to completion. This was mainly due to Moriquendi rolling a disastrously harmful snake eyes at the worst time, allowing me to double my faction pts. Beorn and Thranduil thanked the fates, eagles were mounted, and the big year completed.
